I'm going to hop into my command line.
And can everybody see this, okay?
Good, all right.
Now, I'm going to just do
this off,of my desktop.
And so, we can see here just I'm
gonna show what version I have.
So I'm running 1303.
And now let's generate a new application.
So I don't know,
let's go Hello FBM for fun and
masters and
it's going to ask us a few questions.
Would you like to add routing?
I do like to add routing which is
going to add another routing module.
And what stylesheet format would you like?
So we're gonna go with SCSS and
you can see
here that it is generated
a bunch of files.
And then now it's going through and
installing some dependencies.
And we're going to let
this kind of do its thing.
And what's funny about this is
this takes all of three minutes,
four minutes it's hard to say,
that took even less.
But this used to take me an afternoon.
So from here, I'll just clear this and
we going to step into this.
Alright, and
you can see here that it's generated or
source node modules etc here.
And before I do any of this I'm
just going to go NPM start.
And let's see what happens, so
it is with Angular 13 they've
one change the way that they bundle
the files but they have baked in,
like caching into this to
make it a little bit faster.
And you can see here
compiled successfully and
we are on local host 4200.
And so this is our application.
And the Angular team has graciously
gave us a couple of links
here that we can click through.
It was very nice of them to
tell us what we can do next.
And so from here,
let's hop back into the command line.
And I'm just going to
open a new window here.
And let me just open this up in VS code,
so we can see this as well.
In the source, we have app.
And a couple things.
So we have our app module,
which let's just use our previous kind
of that high level thing to
just kinda anchor some of this.
We have our app component, browser module,
and our app routing module.
So router module comes
from Angular in this app
routing module is what was
generated from the CLI.
And we don't have any routes in here but
it has went ahead and
created this for us and
it is essentially edited the import.
So if you have a module you wanna
make available to another module,
this is where you do that.
And we have our app component.
And within this, you'll see here,
not a lots happening other
than we have a class,
our metadata here and
then this is all of our markup.
So I don't want to get
too much into this but
what we can do is ng g and
I could type out component,
but you can use c as a shortcut.
And I'm going to do home but
you notice here that I have some command
line history that it's kinda
trying to spoil the surprise.
But by using ADI hyphen D.
This allows us to run in dry mode or
dry run.
And so I recommend especially
if you're trying out a new one,
that you can go ahead and check.
And just make sure everything
is where it needs to be.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and take that off.
And you can see here now
we have our home component.
And if I go back into my code,
You'll notice here that inside of app,
we have home, home component or
component class.
We have a .css or
Sass file that we can put any kind
of component specific styles
as well as a spec file here.
So, if I go back into the terminal and
I go, ng test, we'll see what happens.
But what this should do
is kick up a test runner.
And hopefully because haven't done
anything, I hope this passes.
And that'd be amazing, but it is spinning
up karma, which is the test runner.
And then it's saying all right,
we're gonna run so.
Right out of the gates, and
this is testing is something that's not
very exciting, but
it is absolutely critical.
And the fact is that I've created
two components from the generator,
one came with the project, but
then I have a home component, and
it's already instrumented to write test.
And so my experience is that the further
the distance is away from writing code and
being able to write an execute test,
the further that distance gets away,
the greater chance that tests
are just not going to be written.
And so
I was able to generate a component and
Boom, I already have a test
harness in place that works.
So I'm gonna go ahead and close this.
But you can see that it's all green.
I think this is pretty cool.
Now, just a few other things.
Let's go nggs and
I'm gonna do a service and
let's call this I don't know.
Like, we're gonna call this courses and
I'm gonna a dry run.
And let's see what happens.
So it's generating a service and the spec.
But what I don't want is,
I don't want this to go right
in the root of my project.
So what I would do here is
in the case of using just
the Angular CLI,
I will put my common file.
So anything that's not component
related into a common folder,
so essentially, I organized by features.
So Home,
let's say that's a feature courses.
And anything that is common or
that can be shared across features,
I treat that as a large common
feature that then gets segmented down.
And let's go with courses here.
And, We'll see here that it generated or
it's putting it in common services and
then the courses service.
So let me go ahead and run this,
we'll generate this and
then let's step in the code and
see what this looks like.
So we have our home which we generated and
then in here we have our courses, service.
And there's nothing here, but
you'll see that it went ahead and
its provided in route,
which is why if we go down here,
that you don't see this in the providers.
Because I can attach it
directly to this module, but
by providing it in route,
it just is attached to the route module.
And so ng new we'll generate a new
Angular project and using ngg.
You can generate all sorts of stuff.
And let me just see what happens
if we do ngg hyphen, help.
So, one other thing worth mentioning,
is that if you use dash dash help or
hyphen, hyphen help,
you can see a number of things
that are available to you.
So, Application class component dah.
Lots of stuff.
And this was totally not in my notes, but
let's see what happens if
I generate an interface.
So let's go common models course-d,
I just want to see what this looks like.
Alright, we will take
off the dry one flag and
let's hop into the code and
just see what this looks like.
So common models course.
And then you could see here I could
start to build out my interface.
So if I had a course I might
have title which is a string.
Description which is also
a strain it could be progress,
which is lets a number and
completed, which is pulling.
And so this is just off the top
of my head, but by using the CLI,
I was very quickly able to generate and
spin certain things at one.
The project obviously, but
I was able to generate the pieces that I
could then come in and we could start
to work in including a component.
A service and
in this case in interface and so
as we start to work through
the rest of these modules and
some of these challenges,
I recommend definitely keeping
ngg close to the vest as it is.